Tanks

_By Murray Leinster_

    ... The deciding battle of the War of 1932 was the first in which
    the use of infantry was practically discontinued ...

    --History of the U.S., 1920-1945 (Gregg-Harley).

The persistent, oily smell of fog-gas was everywhere, even in the little
pill-box. Outside, all the world was blotted out by the thick gray mist
that went rolling slowly across country with the breeze. The noises that
came through it were curiously muted--fog-gas mutes all noises
somewhat--but somewhere to the right artillery was pounding something
with H E shell, and there were those little spitting under-current
explosions that told of tanks in action. To the right there was a
distant rolling of machine-gun fire. In between was an utter, solemn
silence.

Sergeant Coffee, disreputable to look at and disrespectful of mien, was
sprawling over one of the gunners' seats and talking into a field
telephone while mud dripped from him. Corporal Wallis, equally muddy and
still more disreputable, was painstakingly manufacturing one complete
cigarette from the pinched-out butts of four others. Both were
rifle-infantry. Neither had any right or reason to be occupying a
definitely machine-gun-section post. The fact that the machine-gun crew
was all dead did not seem to make much difference to sector H.Q. at the
other end of the telephone wire, judging from the questions that were
being asked.

"I tell you," drawled Sergeant Coffee, "they're dead.... Yeah, all dead.
Just as dead as when I told you the firs' time, maybe even deader....
Gas, o'course. I don't know what kind.... Yeh. They got their masks
on."

He waited, looking speculatively at the cigarette Corporal Wallis had in
manufacture. It began to look imposing. Corporal Wallis regarded it
affectionately. Sergeant Coffee put his hand over the mouthpiece, and
looked intently at his companion.

"Gimme a drag o' that, Pete," he suggested. "I'll slip y' some butts in
a minute."

       *       *       *       *       *

Corporal Wallis nodded, and proceeded to light the cigarette with
infinite artistry. He puffed delicately upon it, inhaled it with the
care a man learns when he has just so much tobacco and never expects to
get any more, and reluctantly handed it to Sergeant Coffee.

Sergeant Coffee emptied his lungs in a sigh of anticipation. He put the
cigarette to his lips. It burned brightly as he drew upon it. Its tip
became brighter and brighter until it was white-hot, and the paper
crackled as the line of fire crept up the tube.

"Hey!" said Corporal Wallis in alarm.

Sergeant Coffee waved him aside, and his chest expanded to the fullest
limit of his blouse. When his lungs could hold no more he ceased to
draw, grandly returned about one-fourth of the cigarette to Corporal
Wallis, and blew out a cloud of smoke in small driblets until he had to
gasp for breath.

"When y' ain't got much time," said Sergeant Coffee amiably, "that's a
quick smoke."

Corporal Wallis regarded the ruins of his cigarette with a woeful air.

"Hell!" said Corporal Wallis gloomily. But he smoked what was left.

"Yeah," said Sergeant Coffee suddenly, into the field telephone, "I'm
still here, an' they're still dead.... Listen, Mr. Officer, I got me a
black eye an' numerous contusions. Also my gas-mask is busted. I called
y'up to do y' a favor. I aim to head for distant parts.... Hell's bells!
Ain't there anybody else in the army--" He stopped, and resentment died
out in wide-eyed amazement. "Yeh.... Yeh.... Yeh.... I gotcha, Loot.
A'right, I'll see what I c'n do. Yeh.... Wish y'd see my insurance gets
paid. Yeh."

He hung up, gloomily, and turned to Corporal Wallis.

"We' got to be heroes," he announced bitterly. "Sit out here in th'
stinkin' fog an' wait for a tank t' come along an' wipe us out. We' the
only listenin' post in two miles of front. That new gas o' theirs wiped
out all the rest without report."

He surveyed the crumpled figures, which had been the original occupants
of the pill-box. They wore the same uniform as himself and when he took
the gas-mask off of one of them the man's face was strangely peaceful.

"Hell of a war," said Sergeant Coffee bitterly. "Here our gang gets
wiped out by a helicopter. I ain't seen sunlight in a week, an' I got
just four butts left. Lucky I started savin' 'em." He rummaged shrewdly.
"This guy's got half a sack o' makin's. Say, that was Loot'n't Madison
on the line, then. Transferred from our gang a coupla months back. They
cut him in the line to listen in on me an' make sure I was who I said I
was. He recognized my voice."

       *       *       *       *       *

Corporal Wallis, after smoking to the last and ultimate puff, pinched
out his cigarette and put the fragments of a butt back in his pocket.

"What we got to do?" he asked, watching as Sergeant Coffee divided the
treasure-trove into two scrupulously exact portions.

"Nothin'," said Coffee bitterly, "except find out how this gang got
wiped out, an' a few little things like that. Half th' front line is in
th' air, the planes can't see anything, o'course, an' nobody dares cut
th' fog-gas to look. He didn't say much, but he said for Gawd's sake
find out somethin'."

Corporal Wallis gloated over one-fourth of a sack of tobacco and stowed
it away.

"Th' infantry always gets th' dirty end of the stick," he said gloomily.
"I'm goin' to roll me a whole one, pre-war, an' smoke it, presently."

"Hell yes," said Coffee. He examined his gas-mask from force of habit
before stepping out into the fog once more, then contemptuously threw it
aside. "Gas-masks, hell! Ain't worth havin'. Come on."

Corporal Wallis followed as he emerged from the little round cone of
the pill-box.

The gray mist that was fog-gas hung over everything. There was a
definite breeze blowing, but the mist was so dense that it did not seem
to move. It was far enough from the fog-flares for the last least trace
of striation to have vanished. Fifteen miles to the north the fog-flares
were placed, ranged by hundreds and by thousands, burning one after
another as the fog service set them off, and sending out their
incredible masses of thick gray vapor in long threads that spread out
before the wind, coalesced, and made a smoke-screen to which the puny
efforts of the last war--the war that was to make the world safe for
democracy--were as nothing.

Here, fifteen miles down wind from the flares, it was possible to see
clearly in a circle approximately five feet in diameter. At the edge of
that circle outlines began to blur. At ten feet all shapes were the
faintest of bulks, the dimmest of outlines. At fifteen feet all was
invisible, hidden behind a screen of mist.

"Cast around," said Coffee gloomily. "Maybe we'll find a shell, or
tracks of a tank or somethin' that chucked the gas here."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was rather ludicrous to go searching for anything in that mass of
vapor. At three yards distance they could make each other out as dim
outlines, no more. But it did not even occur to them to deplore the
mist. The war which had already been christened, by the politicians at
home, the last war, was always fought in a mist. Infantry could not
stand against tanks, tanks could not live under aircraft-directed
artillery fire--not when forty guns fired salvos for the aircraft to
spot--and neither artillery nor aircraft could take any advantage of a
victory which either, under special conditions, might win. The general
staffs of both the United States and the prominent nation--let us say
the Yellow Empire--at war with it had come to a single conclusion.
Tanks or infantry were needed for the use of victories. Infantry could
be destroyed by tanks. But tanks could be hidden from aerial spotters by
smoke-screens.

The result was fog-gas, which was being used by both sides in the most
modern fashion when, their own unit wiped out and themselves wandering
aimlessly in the general direction of the American rear, Sergeant Coffee
and Corporal Wallis stumbled upon an American pill-box with its small
garrison lying dead. For forty miles in one direction and perhaps thirty
in the other, the vapor lay upon the earth. It was being blown by the
wind, of course, but it was sufficiently heavier than air to cling to
the ground level, and the industries of two nations were straining every
nerve to supply the demands of their respective armies for its material.

The fog-bank was nowhere less than a hundred feet thick--a cloud of
impalpable particles impenetrable to any eye or any camera, however
shrewdly filtered. And under that mattress of pale opacity the tanks
crawled heavily. They lurched and rumbled upon their deadly errands,
uncouth and barbarous, listening for each other by a myriad of devices,
locked in desperate, short-range conflict when they came upon each
other, and emitting clouds of deadly vapor, against which gas-masks were
no protection, when they came upon opposing infantry.

       *       *       *       *       *

The infantrymen, though, were few. Their principal purpose was the
reporting of the approach or passage of tanks, and trenches were of no
service to them. They occupied unarmed little listening-posts with field
telephones, small wireless or ground buzzer sets for reporting the enemy
before he overwhelmed them. They held small pill-boxes, fitted with
anti-tank guns which sometimes--if rarely--managed to get home a shell,
aimed largely by sound, before the tank rolled over gun and gunners
alike.

And now Sergeant Coffee and Corporal Wallis groped about in that
blinding mist. There had been two systems of listening-posts hidden in
it, each of admittedly little fighting value, but each one deep and
composed of an infinity of little pin-point posts where two or three men
were stationed. The American posts, by their reports, had assured the
command that all enemy tanks were on the other side of a certain
definite line. Their own tanks, receiving recognition signals, passed
and repassed among them, prowling in quest of invaders. The enemy tanks
crawled upon the same grisly patrol on their own side.

But two miles of the American front had suddenly gone silent. A hundred
telephones had ceased to make reports along the line nearest the enemy.
As Coffee and Wallis stumbled about the little pill-box, looking for
some inkling of the way in which the original occupants of the small
strong-point had been wiped out, the second line of observation-posts
began to go dead.

Now one, now another abruptly ceased to communicate. Half a dozen were
in actual conversation with their sector headquarters, and broke off
between words. The wires remained intact. But in fifteen nerve-racking
minutes a second hundred posts ceased to make reports and ceased to
answer the inquiry-signal. G.H.Q. was demanding explanations in crisp
accents that told the matter was being taken very seriously indeed. And
then, as the officer in command of the second-line sector headquarters
was explaining frenziedly that he was doing all any man could do, he
stopped short between two words and thereafter he, also, ceased to
communicate.

Front-line sector headquarters seemed inexplicably to have escaped
whatever fate had overtaken all its posts, but it could only report that
they had apparently gone out of existence without warning. American
tanks, prowling in the area that had gone dead, announced that no enemy
tanks had been seen. G-81, stumbling on a pill-box no more than ten
minutes after it had gone silent, offered to investigate. A member of
her crew, in a gas-mask, stepped out of the port doorway. Immediately
thereafter G-81's wireless reports stopped coming in.

       *       *       *       *       *

The situation was clearly shown in the huge tank that had been built to
serve as G.H.Q. That tank was seventy feet long, and lay hidden in the
mist with a brood of other, smaller tanks clustered near it, from each
of which a cable ran to the telephones and instruments of the greater
monster. Farther off in the fog, of course, were other tanks, hundreds
of them, fighting machines all, silent and motionless now, but
infinitely ready to protect the brain of the army.

The G.H.Q. maneuver-board showed the battle as no single observer could
ever have seen it. A map lay spread out on a monster board, under a
pitiless white light. It was a map of the whole battlefield. Tiny sparks
crawled here and there under the map, and there were hundreds of little
pins with different-colored heads to mark the position of this thing and
that. The crawling sparks were the reported positions of American tanks,
made visible as positions of moving trains had been made visible for
years on the electric charts of railroads in dispatcher's offices. Where
the tiny bulbs glowed under the map, there a tank crawled under the fog.
As the tank moved, the first bulb went out and another flashed into
light.

The general watched broodingly as the crawling sparks moved from this
place to that place, as varicolored lights flashed up and vanished, as a
steady hand reached down to shift tiny pins and place new ones. The
general moved rarely, and spoke hardly at all. His whole air was that of
a man absorbed in a game of chess--a game on which the fate of a nation
depended.

He was thus absorbed. The great board, illuminated from above by the
glaring bulb, and speckled with little white sparks from below by the
tiny bulbs beneath, showed the situation clearly at every instant. The
crawling white sparks were his own tanks, each in its present position.
Flashing blue sparks noted the last report of enemy tanks. Two staff
officers stood behind the general, and each spoke from time to time into
a strapped-on telephone transmitter. They were giving routine orders,
heading the nearest American patrol-tanks toward the location of the
latest reported enemies.

       *       *       *       *       *

The general reached out his hand suddenly and marked off an area with
his fingers. They were long fingers, and slender ones: an artist's
fingers.

"Our outposts are dead in this space," he observed meditatively. The use
of the word "outposts" dated him many years back as a soldier, back to
the old days of open warfare, which had only now come about again.
"Penetration of two miles--"

"Tank, sir," said the man of the steady fingers, putting a black pin in
position within that area, "let a man out in a gas-mask to examine a
pill-box. The tank does not report or reply, sir."

"Gas," said the general, noting the spot. "Their new gas, of course. It
must go through masks or sag-paste, or both."

He looked up to one of a row of officers seated opposite him, each man
with headphones strapped to his ears and a transmitter before his lips,
and each man with a map-pad on his knees, on which from time to time he
made notations and shifted pins absorbedly.

"Captain Harvey," said the general, "you are sure that dead spot has not
been bombarded with gas-shells?"

"Yes, General. There has been no artillery fire heavy enough to put more
than a fraction of those posts out of action, and all that fire, sir,
has been accounted for elsewhere."

The officer looked up, saw the general's eyes shift, and bent to his map
again, on which he was marking areas from which spotting aircraft
reported flashes as of heavy guns beneath the mist.

"Their aircraft have not been dropping bombs, positively?"

A second officer glanced up from his own map.

"Our planes cover all that space, sir, and have for some time."

"They either have a noiseless tank," observed the general meditatively,
"or...."

The steady fingers placed a red pin at a certain spot.

"One observation-post, sir, has reopened communication. Two infantrymen,
separated from their command, came upon it and found the machine-gun
crew dead, with gas-masks adjusted. No tanks or tracks. They are
identified, sir, and are now looking for tank tracks or shells."

The general nodded emotionlessly.

"Let me know immediately."

       *       *       *       *       *

He fell back to the ceaseless study of the board with its crawling
sparks and sudden flashes of light. Over at the left, there were four
white sparks crawling toward a spot where a blue flash had showed a
little while since. A red light glowed suddenly where one of the white
sparks crawled. One of the two officers behind the general spoke
crisply. Instantly, it seemed, the other three white sparks changed
their direction of movement. They swung toward the red flash--the point
where a wireless from the tank represented by the first white flash had
reported, contact with the enemy.

"Enemy tank destroyed here, sir," said the voice above the steady
fingers.

"Wiped out three of our observation posts," murmured the general, "His
side knows it. That's an opportunity. Have those posts reoccupied."

"Orders given, sir," said a staff officer from behind. "No reports as
yet."

The general's eyes went back to the space two miles wide and two miles
deep in which there was only a single observation-post functioning, and
that in charge of two strayed infantrymen. The battle in the fog was in
a formative stage, now, and the general himself had to watch the whole,
because it was by small and trivial indications that the enemy's plans
would be disclosed. The dead area was no triviality, however. Half a
dozen tanks were crawling through it, reporting monotonously that no
sign of the enemy could be found. One of the little sparks representing
those tanks abruptly went out.

"Tank here, sir, no longer reports."

The general watched with lack-luster eyes, his mind withdrawn in
thought.

"Send four helicopters," he said slowly, "to sweep that space. We'll see
what the enemy does."

One of the seated officers opposite him spoke swiftly. Far away a
roaring set up and was stilled. The helicopters were taking off.

       *       *       *       *       *

They would rush across the blanket of fog, their vertical propellers
sending blasts of air straight downward. For most of their sweep they
would keep a good height, but above the questionable ground they would
swoop down to barely above the fog-blanket. There their monstrous screws
would blow holes in the fog until the ground below was visible. If any
tanks crawled there, in the spaces the helicopters swept clear, they
would be visible at once and would be shelled by batteries miles away,
batteries invisible under the artificial cloud-bank.

No other noises came through the walls of the monster tank. There was a
faint, monotonous murmur of the electric generator. There were the
quiet, crisp orders of the officers behind the general, giving the
routine commands that kept the fighting a stalemate.

The aircraft officer lifted his head, pressing his headphones tightly
against his ears, as if to hear mores clearly.

"The enemy, sir, has sent sixty fighting machines to attack our
helicopters. We sent forty single-seaters as escort."

"Let them fight enough," said the general absently, "to cause the enemy
to think us desperate for information. Then draw them off."

There was silence again. The steady fingers put pins here and there. An
enemy tank destroyed here. An American tank encountered an enemy and
ceased to report further. The enemy sent four helicopters in a wide
sweep behind the American lines, escorted by fifty fighting planes. They
uncovered a squadron of four tanks, which scattered like insects
disturbed by the overturning of a stone. Instantly after their
disclosure a hundred and fifty guns, four miles away, were pouring
shells about the place where they had been seen. Two of the tanks ceased
to report.

The general's attention was called to a telephone instrument with its
call-light glowing.

"Ah," said the general absently. "They want publicity matter."

The telephone was connected to the rear, and from there to the Capital.
A much-worried cabinet waited for news, and arrangements were made and
had been used, to broadcast suitably arranged reports from the front,
the voice of the commander-in-chief in the field going to every
workshop, every gathering-place, and even being bellowed by
loud-speakers in the city streets.

       *       *       *       *       *

The general took the phone. The President of the United States was at
the other end of the wire, this time.

"General?"

"Still in a preliminary stage, sir," said the general, without haste.
"The enemy is preparing a break-through effort, possibly aimed at our
machine-shops and supplies. Of course, if he gets them we will have to
retreat. An hour ago he paralyzed our radios, not being aware, I
suppose, of our tuned earth-induction wireless sets. I daresay he is
puzzled that our communications have not fallen to pieces."

"But what are our chances?" The voice of the President was steady, but
it was strained.

"His tanks outnumber ours two to one, of course, sir," said the general
calmly. "Unless we can divide his fleet and destroy a part of it, of
course we will be crushed in a general combat. But we are naturally
trying to make sure that any such action will take place within
point-blank range of our artillery, which may help a little. We will cut
the fog to secure that help, risking everything, if a general engagement
occurs."

There was silence.

The President's voice, when it came, was more strained still.

"Will you speak to the public, General?"

"Three sentences. I have no time for more."

There were little clickings on the line, while the general's eyes
returned to the board that was the battlefield in miniature. He
indicated a spot with his finger.

"Concentrate our reserve-tanks here," he said meditatively. "Our
fighting aircraft here. At once."

The two spots were at nearly opposite ends of the battle field. The
chief of staff, checking the general's judgment with the alert suspicion
that was the latest addition to his duties, protested sharply.

"But sir, our tanks will have no protection against helicopters!"

"I am quite aware of it," said the general mildly.

He turned to the transmitter. A thin voice had just announced at the
other end of the wire, "The commander-in-chief of the army in the field
will make a statement."

       *       *       *       *       *

The general spoke unhurriedly.

"We are in contact with the enemy, have been for some hours. We have
lost forty tanks and the enemy, we think, sixty or more. No general
engagement has yet taken place, but we think decisive action on the
enemy's part will be attempted within two hours. The tanks in the field
need now, as always, ammunition, spare tanks, and the special supplies
for modern warfare. In particular, we require ever-increasing quantities
of fog-gas. I appeal to your patriotism for reinforcements of material
and men."

He hung up the receiver and returned to his survey of the board.

"Those three listening-posts," he said abruptly, indicating a place near
where an enemy tank had been destroyed. "Have they been reoccupied?"

"Yes, sir. Just reported. The tank they reported rolled over them,
destroying the placement. They are digging in."

"Tell me," said the general, "when they cease to report again. They
will."

He watched the board again and without lifting his eyes from it, spoke
again.

"That listening-post in the dead sector, with the two strayed
infantrymen in it. Was it reported?"

"Not yet, sir."

"Tell me immediately it does."

The general leaned back in his chair and deliberately relaxed. He
lighted a cigar and puffed at it, his hands quite steady. Other
officers, scenting the smoke, glanced up enviously. But the general was
the only man who might smoke. The enemy's gases, like the American ones,
could go through any gas-mask if in sufficient concentration. The tanks
were sealed like so many submarines, and opened their interiors to the
outer air only after that air had been thoroughly tested and proven
safe. Only the general might use up more than a man's allowance for
breathing.

       *       *       *       *       *

The general gazed about him, letting his mind rest from its intense
strain against the greater strain that would come on it in a few
minutes. He looked at a tall blond man who was surveying the board
intently, moving away, and returning again, his forehead creased in
thought.

The general smiled quizzically. That man was the officer appointed to I.
I. duty--interpretative intelligence--chosen from a thousand officers
because the most exhaustive psychological tests had proven that his
brain worked as nearly as possible like that of the enemy commander. His
task was to take the place of the enemy commander, to reconstruct from
the enemy movements reported and the enemy movements known as nearly as
possible the enemy plans.

"Well, Harlin," said the general, "Where will he strike?"

"He's tricky, sir," said Harlin. "That gap in our listening-posts looks,
of course, like preparation for a massing of his tanks inside our lines.
And it would be logical that he fought off our helicopters to keep them
from discovering his tanks massing in that area."

The general nodded.

"Quite true," he admitted. "Quite true."

"But," said Harlin eagerly. "He'd know we could figure that out. And he
may have wiped out listening posts to make us think he was planning just
so. He may have fought off our helicopters, not to keep them from
discovering his tanks in there, but to keep them from discovering that
there were no tanks in there!"

"My own idea exactly," said the general meditatively. "But again, it
looks so much like a feint that it may be a serious blow. I dare not
risk assuming it to be a feint only."

He turned back to the board.

"Have those two strayed infantrymen reported yet?" he asked sharply.

"Not yet, sir."

       *       *       *       *       *

The general drummed on the table. There were four red flashes glowing at
different points of the board--four points where American tanks or
groups of tanks were locked in conflict with the enemy. Somewhere off
in the enveloping fog that made all the world a gray chaos, lumbering,
crawling monsters rammed and battered at each other at infinitely short
range. They fought blindly, their guns swinging menacingly and belching
lurid flames into the semi-darkness, while from all about them dropped
the liquids that meant death to any man who breathed their vapor. Those
gases penetrated any gas-mask, and would even strike through the
sag-pastes that had made the vesicatory gases of 1918 futile.

With tanks by thousands hidden in the fog, four small combats were kept
up, four only. Battles fought with tanks as the main arm are necessarily
battles of movement, more nearly akin to cavalry battles than any other
unless it be fleet actions. When the main bodies come into contact, the
issue is decided quickly. There can be no long drawn-out stalemates such
as infantry trenches produced in years past. The fighting that had
taken place so far, both under the fog and aloft in the air, was
outpost skirmishing only. When the main body of the enemy came into
action it would be like a whirlwind, and the battle would be won or lost
in a matter of minutes only.

The general paid no attention to those four conflicts, or their possible
meaning.

"I want to hear from those two strayed infantrymen," he said quietly, "I
must base my orders on what they report. The whole battle, I believe,
hinges on what they have to say."

He fell silent, watching the board without the tense preoccupation he
had shown before. He knew the moves he had to make in any of three
eventualities. He watched the board to make sure he would not have to
make those moves before he was ready. His whole air was that of waiting:
the commander-in-chief of the army of the United States, waiting to hear
what he would be told by two strayed infantrymen, lost in the fog that
covered a battlefield.

       *       *       *       *       *

The fog was neither more dense nor any lighter where Corporal Wallis
paused to roll his pre-war cigarette. The tobacco came from the gassed
machine-gunner in the pill-box a few yards off. Sergeant Coffee, three
yards distant, was a blurred figure. Corporal Wallis put his cigarette
into his mouth, struck his match, and puffed delicately.

"Ah!" said Corporal Wallis, and cheered considerably. He thought he saw
Sergeant Coffee moving toward him and ungenerously hid his cigarette's
glow.

Overhead, a machine-gun suddenly burst into a rattling roar, the sound
sweeping above them with incredible speed. Another gun answered it.
Abruptly, the whole sky above them was an inferno of such tearing noises
and immediately after they began a multitudinous bellowing set up.
Airplanes on patrol ordinarily kept their engines muffled, in hopes of
locating a tank below them by its noise. But in actual fighting there
was too much power to be gained by cutting out the muffler for any minor
motive to take effect. A hundred aircraft above the heads of the two
strayed infantrymen were fighting madly about five helicopters. Two
hundred yards away, one fell to the earth with a crash, and immediately
afterward there was a hollow boom. For an instant even the mist was
tinged with yellow from the exploded gasoline tank. But the roaring
above continued--not mounting, as in a battle between opposing patrols
of fighting planes, when each side finds height a decisive advantage,
but keeping nearly to the same level, little above the bank of cloud.

Something came down, roaring, and struck the earth no more than fifty
yards away. The impact was terrific, but after it there was dead silence
while the thunder above kept on.

Sergeant Coffee came leaping to Corporal Wallis' side.

"Helicopters!" he barked. "Huntin' tanks an' pill-boxes! Lay down!"

He flung himself down to the earth.

Wind beat on them suddenly, then an outrageous blast of icy air from
above. For an instant the sky lightened. They saw a hole in the mist,
saw the little pill-box clearly, saw a huge framework of supporting
screws sweeping swiftly overhead with figures in it watching the ground
through wind-angle glasses, and machine-gunners firing madly at dancing
things in the air. Then it was gone.

"One o' ours," shouted Coffee in Wallis' ear. "They' tryin' to find th'
Yellows' tanks!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The center of the roaring seemed to shift, perhaps to the north. Then a
roaring drowned out all the other roarings. This one was lower down and
approaching in a rush. Something swooped from the south, a dark blotch
in the lighter mist above. It was an airplane flying in the mist, a
plane that had dived into the fog as into oblivion. It appeared, was
gone--and there was a terrific crash. A shattering roar drowned out even
the droning tumult of a hundred aircraft engines. A sheet of flame
flashed up, and a thunderous detonation.

"Hit a tree," panted Coffee, scrambling to his feet again. "Suicide
club, aimin' for our helicopter."

Corporal Wallis was pointing, his lips drawn back in a snarl.

"Shut up!" he whispered. "I saw a shadow against that flash! Yeller
infantryman! Le's get 'im!"

"Y'crazy," said Sergeant Coffee, but he strained his eyes and more
especially his ears.

It was Coffee who clutched Corporal Wallis' wrist and pointed. Wallis
could see nothing, but he followed as Coffee moved silently through the
gray mist. Presently he too, straining his eyes, saw an indistinct
movement.

The roaring of motors died away suddenly. The fighting had stopped, a
long way off, apparently because the helicopters had been withdrawn.
Except for the booming of artillery a very long distance away, firing
unseen at an unseen target, there was no noise at all.

"Aimin' for our pill-box," whispered Coffee.

They saw the dim shape, moving noiselessly, halt. The dim figure seemed
to be casting about for something. It went down on hands and knees and
crawled forward. The two infantrymen crept after it. It stopped, and
turned around. The two dodged to one side in haste. The enemy
infantryman crawled off in another direction, the two Americans
following him as closely as they dared.

He halted once more, a dim and grotesque figure in the fog. They saw him
fumbling in his belt. He threw something, suddenly. There was a little
tap as of a fountain pen dropped upon concrete. Then a hissing sound.
That was all, but the enemy infantryman waited, as if listening....

       *       *       *       *       *

The two Americans fell upon him as one individual. They bore him to the
earth and Coffee dragged at his gas-mask, good tactics in a battle where
every man carries gas-grenades. He gasped and fought desperately, in a
seeming frenzy of terror.

They squatted over him, finally, having taken away his automatics, and
Coffee worked painstakingly to get off his gas-mask while Wallis went
poking about in quest of tobacco.

"Dawggone!" said Coffee. "This mask is intricate."

"He ain't got any pockets," mourned Wallis.

Then they examined him more closely.

"It's a whole suit," explained Coffee. "H-m.... He don't have to bother
with sag-paste. He's got him on a land diving-suit."

"S-s-say," gasped the prisoner, his language utterly colloquial in spite
of the beady eyes and coarse black hair that marked him racially as of
the enemy, "say, don't take off my mask! Don't take off my mask!"

"He talks an' everything," observed Coffee in mild amazement. He
inspected the mask again and painstakingly smashed the goggles. "Now,
big boy, you take your chance with th' rest of us. What' you doin'
around here?"

The prisoner set his teeth, though deathly pale, and did not reply.

"H'm-m...." said Coffee meditatively. "Let's take him in the pill-box
an' let Loot'n't Madison tell us what to do with him."

They picked him up.

"No! No! For Gawd's sake, no!" cried the prisoner shrilly. "I just
gassed it!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The two halted. Coffee scratched his nose.

"Reckon he's lyin', Pete?" he asked.

Corporal Wallis shrugged gloomily.

"He ain't got any tobacco," he said morosely. "Let's chuck him in first
an' see."

The prisoner wriggled until Coffee put his own automatic in the small of
his back.

"How long does that gas last?" he asked, frowning. "Loot'n't Madison
wants us to report. There's some fellers in there, all gassed up, but we
were in there a while back an' it didn't hurt us. How long does it
last?"

"Fur-fifteen minutes, maybe twenty," chattered the prisoner. "Don't put
me in there!"

Coffee scratched his nose again and looked at his wrist-watch.

"A'right," he conceded, "we give you twenty minutes. Then we chuck you
down inside. That is, if you act real agreeable until then. Got anything
to smoke?"

The prisoner agonizedly opened a zipper slip in his costume and brought
out tobacco, even tailor-made cigarettes. Coffee pounced on them one
second before Wallis. Then he divided them with absorbed and scrupulous
fairness.

"Right," said Sergeant Coffee comfortably. He lighted up. "Say, you, if
y' want to smoke, here's one o' your pills. Let's see the gas stuff.
How' y' use it?"

Wallis had stripped off a heavy belt about the prisoner's waist and it
was trailing over his arm. He inspected it now. There were twenty or
thirty little sticks in it, each one barely larger than a lead pencil,
of dirty gray color, and each one securely nested in a tube of
flannel-lined papier-mache.

"These things?" asked Wallis contentedly. He was inhaling deeply with
that luxurious enjoyment a tailor-made cigarette can give a man who had
been remaking butts into smokes for days past.

"Don't touch 'em," warned the prisoner nervously. "You broke my goggles.
You throw 'em, and they light and catch fire, and that scatters the
gas."

       *       *       *       *       *

Coffee touched the prisoner, indicating the ground, and sat down,
comfortably smoking one of the prisoner's cigarettes. By his air, he
began to approve of his captive.

"Say, you," he said curiously, "you talk English pretty good. How'd you
learn it?"

"I was a waiter," the prisoner explained. "New York. Corner Forty-eighth
and Sixth."

"My Gawd!" said Coffee. "Me, I used to be a movie operator along there.
Forty-ninth. Projection room stuff, you know. Say, you know Heine's
place?"

"Sure," said the prisoner. "I used to buy Scotch from that blond feller
in the back room. With a benzine label for a prescription?"

Coffee lay back and slapped his knee.

"Ain't it a small world?" he demanded. "Pete, here, he ain't never been
in any town bigger than Chicago. Ever in Chicago?"

"Hell," said Wallis, morose yet comfortable with a tailor-made
cigarette. "If you guys want to start a extra war, go to knockin'
Chicago. That's all."

Coffee looked at his wrist-watch again.

"Got ten minutes yet," he observed. "Say, you must know Pete Hanfry--"

"Sure I know him," said the enemy prisoner, scornfully. "I waited on
him. One day, just before us reserves were called back home...."

In the monster tank that was headquarters the general tapped his fingers
on his knees. The pale white light flickered a little as it shone on the
board where the bright sparks crawled. White sparks were American tanks.
Blue flashes were for enemy tanks sighted and reported, usually in the
three-second interval between their identification and the annihilation
of the observation-post that had reported them. Red glows showed
encounters between American and enemy tanks. There were a dozen red
glows visible, with from one to a dozen white sparks hovering about
them. It seemed as if the whole front line were about to burst into a
glare of red, were about to become one long lane of conflicts in
impenetrable obscurity, where metal monsters roared and rumbled and
clanked one against the other, bellowing and belching flame and ramming
each other savagely, while from them dripped the liquids that made their
breath mean death. There were nightmarish conflicts in progress under
the blanket of fog, unparalleled save perhaps in the undersea battles
between submarines in the previous European war.

       *       *       *       *       *

The chief of staff looked up; his face drawn.

"General," he said harshly, "it looks like a frontal attack all along
our line."

The general's cigar had gone out. He was pale, but calm with an iron
composure.

"Yes," he conceded. "But you forget that blank spot in our line. We do
not know what is happening there."

"I am not forgetting it. But the enemy outnumbers us two to one--"

"I am waiting," said the general, "to hear from those two infantrymen
who reported some time ago from a listen-post in the dead area."

The chief of staff pointed to the outline formed by the red glows where
tanks were battling.

"Those fights are keeping up too long!" he said sharply. "General, don't
you see, they're driving back our line, but they aren't driving it back
as fast as if they were throwing their whole weight on it! If they were
making a frontal attack there, they'd wipe out the tanks we have facing
them; they'd roll right over them! That's a feint! They're concentrating
in the dead space--"

"I am waiting," said the general softly, "to hear from those two
infantrymen." He looked at the board again and said quietly, "Have the
call-signal sent them. They may answer."

He struck a match to relight his dead cigar. His fingers barely quivered
as they held the match. It might have been excitement--but it might have
been foreboding, too.

"By the way," he said, holding the match clear, "have our machine-shops
and supply-tanks ready to move. Every plane is, of course, ready to take
the air on signal. But get the aircraft ground personnel in their
traveling tanks immediately."

Voices began to murmur orders as the general puffed. He watched the
board steadily.

"Let me know if anything is heard from these infantrymen...."

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a definite air of strain within the tank that was
headquarters. It was a sort of tensity that seemed to emanate from the
general himself.

Where Coffee and Wallis and the prisoner squatted on the ground,
however, there was no sign of strain at all. There was a steady gabble
of voices.

"What kinda rations they give you?" asked Coffee interestedly.

The enemy prisoner listed them, with profane side-comments.

"Hell," said Wallis gloomily. "Y'ought to see what we get! Las' week
they fed us worse'n dogs. An' th' canteen stuff--"

"Your tank men, they get treated fancy?" asked the prisoner.

Coffee made a reply consisting almost exclusively of high powered
expletives.

"--and the infantry gets it in the neck every time," he finished
savagely. "We do the work--"

Guns began to boom, far away. Wallis cocked his ears.

"Tanks gettin' together," he judged, gloomily. "If they'd all blow each
other to hell an' let us infantry fight this battle--"

"Damn the tanks!" said the enemy prisoner viciously. "Look here, you
fellers. Look at me. They sent a battalion of us out, in two waves. We
hike along by compass through the fog, supposed to be five paces apart.
We come on a pill-box or listenin' post, we gas it an' go on. We try not
to make a noise. We try not to get seen before we use our gas. We go on,
deep in your lines as we can. We hear one of your tanks, we dodge it if
we can, so we don't get seen at all. O'course we give it a dose of gas
in passing, just in case. But we don't get any orders about how far to
go or how to come back. We ask for recognition signals for our own
tanks, an' they grin an' say we won't see none of our tanks till the
battle's over. They say 'Re-form an' march back when the fog is out.'
Ain't that pretty for you?"

"You second wave?" asked Coffee, with interest.

The prisoner nodded.

"Mopping up," he said bitterly, "what the first wave left. No fun in
that! We go along gassin' dead men, an' all the time your tanks is
ravin' around to find out what's happenin' to their listenin'-posts.
They run into us--"

Coffee nodded sympathetically.

"The infantry always gets the dirty end of the stick," said Wallis
morosely.

       *       *       *       *       *

Somewhere, something blew up with a violent explosion. The noise of
battle in the distance became heavier and heavier.

"Goin' it strong," said the prisoner, listening.

"Yeh," said Coffee. He looked at his wrist-watch. "Say, that twenty
minutes is up. You go down in there first, big boy."

They stood beside the little pill-box. The prisoner's knees shook.

"Say, fellers," he said pleadingly, "they told us that stuff would
scatter in twenty minutes, but you busted my mask. Yours ain't any good
against this gas. I'll have to go down in there if you fellers make me,
but--"

Coffee lighted another of the prisoner's tailor-made cigarettes.

"Give you five minutes more," he said graciously. "I don't suppose it'll
ruin the war."

They sat down relievedly again, while the fog-gas made all the earth
invisible behind a pall of grayness, a grayness from which the noises of
battle came.

In the tank that was headquarters, the air of strain was pronounced. The
maneuver-board showed the situation as close to desperation, now. The
reserve-tank positions had been switched on the board, dim orange glows,
massed in curiously precise blocks. And little squares of green showed
there that the supply and machine-shop tanks were massed. They were
moving slowly across the maneuver-board. But the principal change lay in
the front-line indications.

The red glows that showed where tank battles were in progress formed an
irregularly curved line, now. There were twenty or more such isolated
battles in progress, varying from single combats between single tanks to
greater conflicts where twenty to thirty tanks to a side were engaged.
And the positions of those conflicts were changing constantly, and
invariably the American tanks were being pushed back.

       *       *       *       *       *

The two staff officers behind the general were nearly silent. There were
few sparks crawling within the American lines now. Nearly every one had
been diverted into the front-line battles. The two men watched the board
with feverish intensity, watching the red glows moving back, and
back....

The chief of staff was shaking like a leaf, watching the American line
stretched, and stretched....

The general looked at him with a twisted smile.

"I know my opponent," he said suddenly. "I had lunch with him once in
Vienna. We were attending a disarmament conference." He seemed to be
amused at the ironic statement. "We talked war and battles, of course.
And he showed me, drawing on the tablecloth, the tactical scheme that
should have been used at Cambrai, back in 1917. It was a singularly
perfect plan. It was a beautiful one."

"General," burst out one of the two staff officers behind him. "I need
twenty tanks from the reserves."

"Take them," said the general. He went on, addressing his chief of
staff. "It was an utterly flawless plan. I talked to other men. We were
all pretty busy estimating each other there, we soldiers. We discussed
each other with some freedom, I may say. And I formed the opinion that
the man who is in command of the enemy is an artist: a soldier with the
spirit of an amateur. He's a very skilful fencer, by the way. Doesn't
that suggest anything?"

The chief of staff had his eyes glued to the board.

"That is a feint, sir. A strong feint, yes, but he has his force
concentrated in the dead area."

"You are not listening, sir," said the general, reprovingly. "I am
saying that my opponent is an artist, an amateur, the sort of person who
delights in the delicate work of fencing. I, sir, would thank God for
the chance to defeat my enemy. He has twice my force, but he will not
be content merely to defeat me. He will want to defeat me by a plan of
consummate artistry, which will arouse admiration among soldiers for
years to come."

"But General, every minute, every second--"

"We are losing men, of whom we have plenty, and tanks, of which we have
not enough. True, very true," conceded the general. "But I am waiting to
hear from two strayed infantrymen. When they report, I will speak to
them myself."

"But, sir," cried the chief of staff, withheld only by the iron habit of
discipline from violent action and the taking over of command himself,
"they may be dead! You can't risk this battle waiting for them! You
can't risk it, sir! You can't!"

"They are not dead," said the general coolly. "They cannot be dead.
Sometimes, sir, we must obey the motto on our coins. Our country needs
this battle to be won. We have got to win it, sir! And the only way to
win it--"

       *       *       *       *       *

The signal-light at his telephone glowed. The general snatched it up,
his hands quivering. But his voice, was steady and deliberate as he
spoke.

"Hello, Sergeant--Sergeant Coffee, is it?... Very well, Sergeant. Tell
me what you've found out.... Your prisoner objects to his rations, eh?
Very well, go on.... How did he gas our listening-posts?... He did, eh?
He got turned around and you caught him wandering about?... Oh, he was
second wave! They weren't taking any chances on any of our
listening-posts reporting their tanks, eh?... Say that again, Sergeant
Coffee!" The general's tone had changed indescribably. "Your prisoner
has no recognition signals for his own tanks? They told him he wouldn't
see any of them until the battle was over?... Thank you, Sergeant. One
of our tanks will stop for you. This is the commanding general
speaking."

He rang off, his eyes blazing. Relaxation was gone. He was a dynamo,
snapping orders.

"Supply tanks, machine-shop tanks, ground forces of the air service,
concentrate here!" His finger rested on a spot in the middle of the dead
area. "Reserve tanks take position behind them. Draw off every tank
we've got--take 'em out of action!--and mass them in front, on a line
with our former first line of outposts. Every airplane and helicopter
take the air and engage in general combat with the enemy, wherever the
enemy may be found and in whatever force. And our tanks move straight
through here!"

Orders were snapping into telephone transmitters. The commands had been
relayed before their import was fully realized. Then there was a gasp.

"General!" cried the chief of staff. "If the enemy is massed there,
he'll destroy our forces in detail as they take position!"

"He isn't massed there," said the general, his eyes blazing. "The
infantrymen who were gassing our listening-posts were given no
recognition signals for their tanks. Sergeant Coffee's prisoner has his
gas-mask broken and is in deadly fear. The enemy commander is foolish in
many ways, perhaps, but not foolish enough to break down morale by
refusing recognition signals to his own men who will need them. And look
at the beautiful plan he's got."

       *       *       *       *       *

He sketched half a dozen lines with his fingers, moving them in
lightning gestures as his orders took effect.

"His main force is here, behind those skirmishes that look like a feint.
As fast as we reinforce our skirmishing-line, he reinforces his--just
enough to drive our tanks back slowly. It looks like a strong feint, but
it's a trap! This dead space is empty. He thinks we are concentrating to
face it. When he is sure of it--his helicopters will sweep across any
minute, now, to see--he'll throw his whole force on our front line.
It'll crumple up. His whole fighting force will smash through to take
us, facing the dead space, in the rear! With twice our numbers, he'll
drive us before him."

"But general! You're ordering a concentration there! You're falling in
with his plans!"

The general laughed.

"I had lunch with the general in command over there, once upon a time.
He is an artist. He won't be content with a defeat like that! He'll want
to make his battle a masterpiece, a work of art! There's just one touch
he can add. He has to have reserves to protect his supply-tanks and
machine-shops. They're fixed. The ideal touch, the perfect tactical
fillip, will be--Here! Look. He expects to smash in our rear, here. The
heaviest blow will fall here. He will swing around our right wing, drive
us out of the dead area into his own lines--and drive us on his
reserves! Do you see it? He'll use every tank he's got in one beautiful
final blow. We'll be outwitted, out-numbered, out-flanked and finally
caught between his main body and his reserves and pounded to bits. It is
a perfect, a masterly bit of work!"

He watched the board, hawklike.

"We'll concentrate, but our machine-shops and supplies will concentrate
with us. Before he has time to take us in rear we'll drive ahead, in
just the line he plans for us! We don't wait to be driven into his
reserves. We roll into them and over them! We smash his supplies! We
destroy his shops! And then we can advance along his line of
communication and destroy it, our own depots being blown up--give the
orders when necessary--and leaving him stranded with motor-driven tanks,
motorized artillery, and nothing to run his motors with! He'll be
marooned beyond help in the middle of our country, and we will have him
at our mercy when his tanks run out of fuel. As a matter of fact, I
shall expect him to surrender in three days."

       *       *       *       *       *

The little blocks of green and yellow that had showed the position of
the reserve and supply-tanks, changed abruptly to white, and began to
crawl across the maneuver-board. Other little white sparks turned about.
Every white spark upon the maneuver-board suddenly took to itself a new
direction.

"Disconnect cables," said the general, crisply. "We move with our tanks,
in the lead!"

The monotonous humming of the electric generator was drowned out in a
thunderous uproar that was muffled as an air-tight door was shut
abruptly. Fifteen seconds later there was a violent lurch, and the
colossal tank was on the move in the midst of a crawling, thundering
horde of metal monsters whose lumbering progress shook the earth.

Sergeant Coffee, still blinking his amazement, absent-mindedly lighted
the last of his share of the cigarettes looted from the prisoner.

"The big guy himself!" he said, still stunned. "My Gawd! The big guy
himself!"

A distant thunder began, a deep-toned rumbling that seemed to come from
the rear. It came nearer and grew louder. A peculiar quivering seemed to
set up in the earth. The noise was tanks moving through the fog, not one
tank or two tanks, or twenty tanks, but all the tanks in creation
rumbling and lurching at their topmost speed in serried array.

Corporal Wallis heard, and turned pale. The prisoner heard, and his
knees caved in.

"Hell," said Corporal Wallis dispairingly. "They can't see us, an' they
couldn't dodge us if they did!"

The prisoner wailed, and slumped to the floor.

Coffee picked him up by the collar and jerked him out of the pill-box.

"C'mon Pete," he ordered briefly. "They ain't givin' us a infantryman's
chance, but maybe we can do some dodgin'!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Then the roar of engines, of metal treads crushing upon earth and
clinking upon their joints, drowned out all possible other sounds.
Before the three men beside the pill-box could have moved a muscle,
monster shapes loomed up, rushing, rolling, lurching, squeaking. They
thundered past, and the hot fumes of their exhausts enveloped the trio.

Coffee growled and put himself in a position of defiance, his feet
braced against the concrete of the pill-box dome. His expression was
snarling and angry but, surreptitiously, he crossed himself. He heard
the fellows of the two tanks that had roared by him, thundering along in
alignment to right and left. A twenty-yard space, and a second row of
the monsters came hurtling on, gun muzzles gaping, gas-tubes elevated,
spitting smoke from their exhausts that was even thicker than the fog. A
third row, a fourth, a fifth....

The universe was a monster uproar. One could not think in this volume of
sound. It seemed that there was fighting overhead. Crackling noises came
feebly through the reverberating uproar that was the army of the United
States in full charge. Something came whirling down through the
overhanging mist and exploded in a lurid flare that for a second or two
cast the grotesque shadows of a row of tanks clearly before the trio of
shaken infantrymen.

Still the tanks came on and roared past. Twenty tanks, twenty-one ...
twenty-two.... Coffee lost count, dazed and almost stunned by the sheer
noise. It rose from the earth and seemed to be echoed back from the
topmost limit of the skies. It was a colossal din, an incredible uproar,
a sustained thunder that beat at the eardrums like the reiterated
concussions of a thousand guns that fired without ceasing. There was no
intermission, no cessation of the tumult. Row after row after row of the
monsters roared by, beaked and armed, going greedily with hungry guns
into battle.

       *       *       *       *       *

And then, for a space of seconds, no tanks passed. Through the
pandemonium of their going, however, the sound of firing somehow seemed
to creep. It was gunfire of incredible intensity, and it came from the
direction in which the front-rank tanks were heading.

"Forty-eight, forty-nine, forty-ten, forty-'leven," muttered Coffee
dazedly, his senses beaten down almost to unconsciousness by the ordeal
of sound. "Gawd! The whole army went by!"

The roaring of the fighting-tanks was less, but it was still a monstrous
din. Through it, however, came now a series of concussions that were so
close together that they were inseparable, and so violent that they were
like slaps upon the chest.

Then came other noises, louder only because nearer. These were different
noises, too, from those the fighting-tanks had made. Lighter noises. The
curious, misshapen service tanks began to rush by, of all sizes and all
shapes. Fuel-carrier tanks. Machine-shop tanks, huge ones, these.
Commissary tanks....

Something enormous and glistening stopped short. A door opened. A voice
roared an order. The three men, beaten and whipped by noise, stared
dumbly.

"Sergeant Coffee!" roared the voice. "Bring your men! Quick!"

Coffee dragged himself back to a semblance of life. Corporal Wallis
moved forward, sagging. The two of them loaded their prisoner into the
door and tumbled in. They were instantly sent into a heap as the tank
took up its progress again with a sudden sharp leap.

"Good man," grinned a sooty-faced officer, clinging to a handhold. "The
general sent special orders you were to be picked up. Said you'd won the
battle. It isn't finished yet, but when the general says that--"

"Battle?" said Coffee dully. "This ain't my battle. It's a parade of a
lot of damn tanks!"

There was a howl of joy from somewhere above. Discipline in the
machine-shop tanks was strict enough, but vastly different in kind from
the formality of the fighting-machines.

"Contact!" roared the voice again. "General wireless is going again! Our
fellows have rolled over their reserves and are smashing their
machine-shops and supplies!"

Yells reverberated deafeningly inside the steel walls, already filled
with tumult from the running motors and rumbling treads.

"Smashed 'em up!" shrieked the voice above, insane with joy. "Smashed
'em! Smashed 'em! Smashed 'em! We've wiped out their whole reserve
and--" A series of detonations came through even the steel shell of the
lurching tank. Detonations so violent, so monstrous, that even through
the springs and treads of the tank the earth-concussion could be felt.
"There goes their ammunition! We set off all their dumps!"

There was sheer pandemonium inside the service-tank, speeding behind the
fighting force with only a thin skin of reserve-tanks between it and a
panic-stricken, mechanically pursuing enemy.

"Yell, you birds!" screamed the voice. "The general says we've won the
battle! Thanks to the fighting force! We're to go on and wipe out the
enemy line of communications, letting him chase us till his gas gives
out! Then we come back and pound him to bits! Our tanks have wiped him
out!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Coffee managed to find something to hold on to. He struggled to his
feet. Corporal Wallis, recovering from the certainty of death and the
torture of sound, was being very sea-sick from the tank's motion. The
prisoner moved away from him on the steel floor. He looked gloomily up
at Coffee.

"Listen to 'em," said Coffee bitterly. "Tanks! Tanks! Tanks! Hell! If
they'd given us infantry a chance--"

"You said it," said the prisoner savagely. "This is a hell of a way to
fight a war."

Corporal Wallis turned a greenish face to them.

"The infantry always gets the dirty end of the stick," he gasped. "Now
they--now they' makin' infantry ride in tanks! Hell!"
